ABBY LEE MILLER (VOICEOVER):
Previously on "Dance Moms."
We will be attending In10sity Dance
in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
Replace us, that's fine.
Chloe is suspended. So is her mother.
When I left, there was tension
between Melissa and Abby.
At the top of the pyramid, Maddie.
And it's like I came back,
and everything is back to normal.
Your highest scoring
junior soloist, Maddie.
[cheering]
What happened there?
A real friend would have
picked up a phone.
[bleep] you.
ABBY LEE MILLER (VOICEOVER):
Coming up on "Dance Moms."
Everywhere I look,
there's memories of Baby,
and I don't know
if I want to leave you alone.
We were just wondering
if you heard from Abby or anything.
No.
Screwing with my choreography
is very offensive.
You were kicked out
because she wasn't good enough.
No, bitch, I left.
You ran back over to that studio,
and I see why they don't want you back,
because your kid sucks.
[MUSIC - NIKKO LOWE, "LIVING ON
THE DANCE FLOOR"]
(SINGING) Get up.
Get on the floor.
My world is with my girls
living on the dance floor.
[music continuing]
Isn't there something that says
if a teacher doesn't come
within so many minutes, you can leave?
We all walk into the studio
for rehearsals today,
and everyone's like, oh, where's Abby?
Where's Abby?
And I'm all like, who the hell cares?
Party.
Hey, girls.
Okay.
This is going to be a rough week for me.
Broadway Baby passed away.
She was lethargic,
and I knew something was wrong,
but I just thought that
she had eaten something
that didn't agree with her,
and she was just kind of down and out.
But it ended up being kidney failure.
I mean, I know she's 16,
but she's your kid.
It's like your kid.
It's hard. I mean, we-- it's hard.
I've never seen Abby look so sad.
I mean, Baby really was her baby.
And even though Abby and I
clearly don't get along,
I wouldn't wish this on her
in a million years.
I'm here. We need to get ready.
We are going to St. Louis
to Dance Expressions.
It's a huge competition.
I don't want to be here right now.
I don't want to talk about it.
I don't want to look at these kids,
but this is what I do.
So I put my game face on.
I came back. I'm here.
I need to get these kids
ready for St. Louis.
On the bottom, we have Paige.
Paige, the reason
you're on the bottom is the duet.
We, all of us in this room,
need to be confident in you,
in your performance.
Next on the pyramid is Brooke.
Brooke, for you
to get in the top five was good.
For you not to win was bad.
The fact that both of my kids
are at the bottom of the pyramid
makes me wonder if it's personal.
Like is it because Abby doesn't like me?
And next, Mackenzie.
I thought for you
to be doing the same choreography
as a 14-year-old was great.
Moving up.
Next on the pyramid is Kendall.
Kendall, I think you're good at evil.
I thought you looked really good
in the costume,
and I thought you went out there,
and you sold it.
And next, we have Nia.
Nia, you're here because, again,
your facial expressions,
you told the story.
And at the top of the pyramid
once again, Maddie.
You went out on that stage,
you danced for your life,
and you won.
You stayed on top of this pyramid
for another week.
I'm so relieved that Maddie is back
to being on top week after week.
And I'm so glad that Abby has given her
this opportunity again,
and it's given her a lot of confidence.
Chloe, just to make things
perfectly clear,
you are still on suspension.
Understood?
Moving on, the group routine,
which Mackenzie is not in,
it is called
"My Dream Will Be Your Dream."
Has a ton of ballet technique in it.
So this story is going to be
an epic love story.
It's going to be beautiful,
and it's going to be entertaining.
I think this piece,
being this big, epic love story,
is going to help me remember Baby.
Anytime I walk into the studio,
it's an escape.
Helps me keep my mind off of other things.
Now, moms,
I've taken care of the costumes.
The headpieces are being made.
Everything is ready to go.
Now, we have some solos.
Nia, you're going to be doing a solo.
The name of your music
is "Breaking My Heart."
I'm really excited Nia has a solo.
I just hope that she can take away
some of Abby's grief and not add to it.
Maddie, you're also going to have a solo.
The name of your routine
is "Showing You My Heart."
Just one more thing
I want to remind you of.
St. Louis the home of Black Patsy.
So, Maddie and Nia, you're going to be
going head to head with Nicaya.
Black Patsy is this crazy mom
who actually makes us
call her Black Patsy.
- So what would you like us to call you?
- Black Patsy.
- You know who Patsy Ramsey is?
- JILL: Yeah.
- Crazy stage mom?
- JILL: That's you.
Her daughter danced for the ALDC,
and they did not like us,
to say the least.
You want to watch your mouth because
I ain't the rest of these dance moms.
'Cause I'm not a doctor like Holly.
I'm from the hood.
Believe that.
Moms, I am begging you, no chaos.
I have been through the ringer and back
with this whole dog situation.
I want a simple, easy weekend, okey-doke?
Alright, I'm going to dismiss you now.
Girls, spread apart,
and let's start our warm-up, please.
Think of grandeur.
Think of being in a ballroom
at a black tie event
with a beautiful, handsome man
in a tuxedo.
This is an epic love story.
It's about a peasant girl who is sick,
and she's afraid that
the illness is going to take her life,
and she'll be separated
from the man she loves.
I thought I was ready to be back.
I thought I was stronger than this,
but, obviously, I'm not.
I want to go home.
I want to be with my mom,
and I want to be sad.
I'm going to excuse myself.
Work on that part, Maddie. Count it out.
Abby is taking this mourning
a little bit to the extreme.
This is a dog.
She just left us hanging.
Well, I'm sure she's very sad.
I know she is, Melissa,
but life still goes on.
Maybe the girls can make
a big card for her.
Maybe dedicate the dance to her.
We could dedicate it to Baby.
The girls would love that.
I know it sounds crazy to change
the group dance and pick a new song,
but Abby's very vulnerable right now.
And you rarely see that in her,
so I want her to know
that the moms are there for her.
Here, listen.
[music playing]
It's kind of jazzy. We can do that.
Jill plays us a song on her phone
called "Beautiful Day,"
and I really do love it.
And I think it's a really good idea
for the moms
to express to Abby
how sorry we are for her loss.
I just don't think it's a good idea
changing Abby's routine or the music.
- Oh, I like it.
- I like it too.
Yeah, but I think that
we do what Abby said.
- We're going to get in a lot of trouble.
- We are going to get in a lot of trouble.
I don't know.
I think Abby will really appreciate it.
When's the last time
Abby appreciated anything?
I can't imagine Abby being okay with us
changing her group dance direction,
but at the same time,
if she appreciates the tribute,
I don't want all the girls
to be involved except for Chloe.
So fingers crossed
that I don't get suspended again.
- Okay, so we've got how many options?
- JILL: Three.
I don't know
if this actually goes with that music.
We decided to go with a new song choice
for the dedication for Broadway Baby,
and with that means new costuming.
So we're going to have
to come up with that.
God help us all.
I don't know, is this what
we're supposed to be wearing?
- Who knows?
- It is now.
So you want to think
very Southern, very bluesy,
like that kind of a feel.
I still can't believe
you and Christi aren't talking.
I did nothing wrong.
But I was having a really bad week,
and a real friend would have picked up
a phone and called me.
But if you can't answer my phone calls,
then [bleep] you.
[bleep] you.
How long has it been now?
You're like on the third week,
I think. Yeah.
Christi and Abby got into a huge fight
a couple weeks ago
over Chloe dropping her hat,
and then Christi got suspended.
And I tried reaching out to her,
and I haven't talked to her since.
I thought our friendship meant
more than that.
I really hope that you are able
to talk about it this week.
Pisses me off.
Things are already pretty chaotic.
The last thing we need
is Christi and Kelly fighting.
[music continuing]
She was so cute and never hurt anybody.
She made everybody smile.
And what if something was wrong,
and I could have done something about it?
I think maybe it was her time to go.
I mean, she got sick in a day.
- It was that quick.
- I know.
She kept me sane.
She made everything okay.
When I would come home from work
upset or distraught over the mothers,
or you just have a rough day at work
and you come home,
and they kiss you, and they lick you,
and then you're just--
I wasn't here when she needed me.
I was with somebody else's kids.
[music playing]
Hm. Okay.
That's kind of strange.
Okay, keep going.
I am worried that Abby's not here.
I mean, this is her studio,
and we need her here.
God. She's a no-show again.
I understand Abby's still grieving,
but we need her right now.
We changed the group dance and song
to a tribute for Broadway Baby,
and on top of that,
Black Patsy is going to be there.
The last thing we need
right now is to lose.
Hello. It's so quiet out there.
- I know.
- You can hear a pin drop.
- Do dogs go to heaven?
- Yeah.
- Doggie heaven.
- Dogs totally going to heaven.
Abby's probably hoping she goes to hell
because that's where Abby is going to be.
[laughs]
What are you going to do?
Everywhere I look,
there's memories of Baby, everywhere.
And I don't know
if I want to leave you alone.
That scares me.
I think losing Baby so suddenly
was a wake-up call for me.
My mom is all I have left.
And if something happened to her
while I was on the road with these kids,
I would never forgive myself.
Well, you have to go back
to the studio and teach the kids.
I mean, all those kids you have.
- I know, but they're so unappreciative.
- No, they're not.
Yes, they are. They roll their eyes,
and they're all bratty,
and my Baby never did that.
I don't know if I can go back to the team,
or back to the studio even.
- I'm very sorry--
- Oh, look how nice.
- I know you--
- That looks really good.
The girls made a card for Abby
all on their own,
and I think it was great that they wanted
to show her how much they care.
When I was in my private,
Miss Abby was telling me that
she was in such pain and stuff.
Like, she would carry her like a baby,
and Baby kept throwing her head back.
I've never seen Miss Abby so sad before,
and she's been crying every day.
So I think that this card
will hopefully cheer her up.
[music playing]
Fabulous.
4, 5.
Here we go. And 1, 2, 3.
Watch those arms.
So--
We have Niyala again?
Yeah, Abby's not here.
Obviously, she has taken
this mourning thing to extreme.
Does anybody want to come down with me
and find out Niyala knows
anything about Abby?
- No.
- Okay, we'll be back.
We'll let you know what we find out.
It's funny that Christi's still mad at me.
I mean, Abby's dog died.
We have no idea
if she's coming to the competition.
And she would rather be pouting
and be mad at me
than to go down and find out
what's going on.
NIYALA: Pull in. Second. Second.
Sorry to interrupt.
We try not to barge in or anything.
We were just wondering
if you've heard from Abby or anything?
Not at all?
Do you know if she'll be back
before the competition?
No.
Oh god, we're screwed.
[music continuing]
Now, 1, up.
[MUSIC - ELAINE FAYE, "GET BACK UP"]
(SINGING) I woke up late for work today.
Alarm must have passed away.
Up, up. Down. Roll.
Nicaya's doing a jazz solo
to a song called "Get Back Up."
It's about someone
who's struggling and can't pay bills,
just kind of being down and out,
and trying to figure out a way
to come out of it.
What I want to see in your solo is angst.
You know, sad, struggle.
This is hard.
Don't dance like some rich kid
from Pittsburgh.
Try again. Go.
I feel like I have something
to prove to Abby and those moms.
There it is.
They want to see me fail
just to shut me up.
I am so excited about
meeting up with them again
'cause I got a lot I want to say to them.
You got to point those feet, right?
We can't give them any reason
to question your technique.
Let's go from the turn.
Abby's big about those legs and feet,
even though she can't see her own.
[laughs]
I think Abby thinks that
people are intimidated
or kind of jealous of her.
Really, just trash with a title.
I have no respect for her.
So I want to just give her
a piece of my mind.
She's not better than me.
[music continuing]
NIYALA: Straighten that back knee.
1. Straighten that bottom knee.
Straighten it.
Up. Up. Up. Good.
I really like Nia's solo this week.
The only thing is
she's dancing with a hat,
and that always makes me nervous,
because if you drop a hat on stage,
Abby gets really upset.
Okay. You're going to put
that hat on your head.
You got to put it on your head
so it doesn't fall off.
I hope Nia doesn't wear that hat
because I already lost one friendship
over that hat.
I don't want to lose another one.
Kelly, you didn't lose
a friendship over a hat.
You lost a friendship because
you told me to go [bleep] myself.
You admitted I called you the one time.
- You called me once on Friday.
- Okay, well, why didn't you call me back?
- Why didn't you call me back?
- Because you were on the bus with Abby.
- So what if I'm on the bus with Abby?
- I was the one having a bad week.
When you have a bad week, my God,
I practically rock you, like are you okay?
Just like I'm there
for you guys all the time.
- Yeah.
Remember when I sat in the car for you,
who was the biggest advocate
to get you back on the team? Me.
I know that. That's why
I was your biggest advocate
when we were in the pyramid and stuff.
And you didn't even call me.
I've always thought
Kelly was my best friend,
but I've seen her true colors.
You know, if she's in need,
she's a great friend,
but if it's someone else,
she could care less.
And I don't know
if I could forgive her for that.
Whatever, Christi. I'm not going
to sit here and fight with you about it.
- Okay.
- It's not worth it.
Clearly, our friendship isn't worth it.
Clearly.
At least now I know
where I stand with you.
I brought a donut for myself to eat.
I want a donut.
It was tough walking back into the studio,
but I did it.
Broadway Baby loved it here.
She loved the kids,
and I think she would have
wanted me to be here.
- Hey, babe, how are you doing?
- Hi.
- How are you?
Good. Hey, babe.
Nothing makes me happier
than working with Maddie,
so I'm going to start with her solo.
Alright, Maddie, this is called
"Showing You My Heart."
Let's see what you have, alright?
So you're still not going to talk to me?
I tried to talk to you.
You didn't answer your phone call.
I don't even know what to say to her.
Pretend I'm not even here,
and I think that's the only way
that it's going to work.
[music playing]
(SINGING) I'm showing you my heart.
ABBY LEE MILLER: Hit it.
Can't let that drop. You need to whack it.
Christi was saying you guys were talking.
It sounded like she's reaching out.
She's mad because I'm not kissing her ass.
What?
At this point, I don't know
if we can get past this.
I mean, Christi acts like
everything is about her.
And it's not your world, Christi.
Get over it.
This up, up, down, down has to be bigger.
You kind of just slumped through it.
Give me a big, big, in, in.
I'm nervous about Nia's solo this week.
Abby has barely spent any time with her,
and she's in direct competition
from Nicaya.
That's a lot of pressure for any kid.
Ready, guys?
I want to see that number, alright?
This is their tribute dance,
except Abby doesn't know it.
No, and I wonder how she's going to react.
Alright, let's hear the music.
[MUSIC - ELIZE, "BEAUTIFUL DAY"]
(SINGING) Na-na na-na ay. Na-na na-na ay.
- Do it.
- Look, look, look.
She's finding out that it's not the music.
That's not a look
of pleasure or happiness.
Whoa. This isn't the music.
The girls wanted to do
a tribute to you for Baby.
They wanted to surprise you
with this dance and the music.
The girls or their mothers?
JANEANE: Both of them.
Alright, that's not what I want.
This is a beautiful number,
not a pop song.
If you want to be nice and do something
out of the kindness of your heart,
how about honoring my wishes?
Janeane, you have to remember,
the mothers know nothing.
Okay.
You can't let them bulldoze over you.
You need to stand your ground.
She's changing everything that, like--
Everything we did this week,
she's changing.
Obviously, Abby doesn't
want to do any work.
She just wanted to come back,
and she's still grieving,
which I understand.
Okay, moms, come on down.
Going behind my back, changing my music,
changing the choreography,
and now dumping
this big, hot mess in my lap.
What these moms are doing
is not okay with me.
Moms, it's been explained
to me by the girls
that this was your idea,
and this was your choreography.
I'm being told that
costumes I left that were ready,
the headpieces that I had made
that are all ready,
and all my ducks in a row
were blatantly disregarded.
We just thought, since you were absent,
we would step up and take charge.
Screwing with my choreography,
and my choice of music,
and my costumes, and my headpiece,
is very offensive.
We all came up
with some ideas for costumes.
No, I don't want any more of your ideas.
My kids are not going to that competition
with some Bahama music
in white bridal dresses.
It's too bad that
Abby can't see the beauty
of what we're trying to do for her.
And the cash.
Okay, you know what,
we're not doing this number.
We're going to use the music
they want to use
and the kids are going to improv.
Since your mothers know best,
you're going to improv.
Hit Play.
[MUSIC - ELIZE, "BEAUTIFUL DAY"]
(SINGING) Na-na na-na ay. Na-na na-na ay.
There's no way they're doing this.
It's almost like Abby's doing improv
because she wants to prove to us moms
don't change her music.
- [laughs]
- I though the other one was better.
Miss Abby had us do this
like big improv section.
It was definitely something unusual.
Whoo.
I have a big, hot mess on my hands.
They needed to really work
on the choreography that I left them.
That didn't happen.
Alright, it does not look like
we are ready to compete tomorrow.
[music playing]
We're here in St. Louis
attending Dance Expressions Competition.
Come on, girls, let's go.
[cheering]
Dance Expressions is a big competition
in the Midwest.
I'm going to have the girls
improvise during the competition.
And, frankly, we are not ready.
- Well, hello.
- Hello.
I knew it was St. Louis.
I knew you'd be here.
You had to expect that I would be here.
This is my hometown.
I'm so glad to see the bougie moms
here in St. Louis is in my "hood" now.
We've got Dr. Holly in the hood now.
Hi, Dr. Holly. Hi, how are you?
It's just too early
in the day for all this.
Don't be so quick to run.
We'll be here all day.
Dr. Holly, don't let me forget that
'cause she earned that title.
She's so educated.
Those letters don't mean a damn thing
if you ain't doing nothing with it.
- Come on, girls.
- Break a leg, girls.
- Good luck.
- We don't need luck. You might.
Sometimes competition days
are filled with excitement and joy.
Right here.
This is not one of those competition days.
Whoo.
I'm worried about the group dance,
and I'm also worried about the solo.
Nia, come on out, honey.
Let me see you in that.
Ooh.
I threw together a costume
with very little guidance from Abby.
Yeah, we need to take that off
and see what else we have.
HOLLY: I just tried to do my best,
considering I was told
to figure it out on my own.
You have shorts cutting your legs,
making your thighs horizontal.
You have a waistband cutting your waist,
making it horizontal.
You want to draw your eyes
up to your face.
Holly, that looks really good.
Thank you for appreciating it.
Abby did not.
Holly, do what you want.
- No, I'm taking it off.
- No, leave it on.
If Holly wants to send her kid out
on stage looking like that,
be my guest.
Come on, girls.
If you're coming, let's go.
[applause]
As we're getting closer to Nia's solo,
I'm worried if Nia has the confidence
to dance on stage and dance well.
ANNOUNCER: Up next is Nia,
performing "Breaking My Heart."
[applause]
[MUSIC - CUT ONE, "BREAKIN' MY HEART"]
(SINGING) You lead me down to the river.
I watched it all begin to flow.
I can't look back.
I know that there's nowhere to go.
Mm.
You always treat me like an enemy.
I've tried so hard to make you see.
That you can't keep breaking
my heart, heart, baby.
Yeah, you can't keep breaking my heart.
No, you can't keep
breaking my heart, baby.
Oh, you can't keep breaking my,
breaking my, breaking my heart.
[applause]
Nia's performance was great.
She's doing her absolute best.
There's nothing more
I could ask of her to do.
I'm not at all threatened
by Abby Lee and her dance company.
I just feel like they need to see
some real competition.
They're on my turf now, so they can see
how we do things
in the Midwest in St. Louis.
ANNOUNCER: Coming on stage now
is Nicaya with "Get Back Up."
[cheering]
Whoo.
Diva 'tude.
[MUSIC - ELAINE FAYE, "GET BACK UP"]
(SINGING) I woke up late for work today.
Alarm must have passed away.
Either way I must say
it's making for a bad, yeah.
But it's hard when you're low on luck.
It's bringing me down.
I need to get back up.
Right now, right now.
Right now.
I'm finding it difficult to stand tall.
Back straight and hold my ground.
I walk to the bus
'cause I can't afford a car.
And the last couple blocks
I walk and explore, yeah.
It's bringing me down.
I need to get back up.
Right now.
[applause]
After seeing Nicaya perform on stage,
I mean, if I was judging,
I would say that Nicaya has regressed.
ANNOUNCER: Up next on stage is Madison
with "Showing You My Heart."
[applause]
[music playing]
(SINGING) I'm showing you my heart.
Asking you to love me.
I'm showing you my heart.
Can you see without my saying.
Living out my passion.
All you see in me is true.
I'm showing you my heart.
It's here for you.
[applause]
ANNOUNCER: Maddie would like
everyone to know
that her performance
was dedicated to Broadway Baby.
I had Maddie dedicate her solo to Baby
because, you know, Abby and I are friends.
I've babysat her dog several times,
and I just thought
it was the right thing to do.
Really, Melissa?
Like do you have to make
everything about your kids?
This was supposed to be something
the whole group was doing.
[music playing]
[sighs]
Oh my gosh.
- Like always a treat.
- Thank you so much for the dedication.
I appreciate that announcement
after Maddie's dance.
Maddie's solo is exactly
as I intended it to be--
uplifting.
It makes you feel good.
And that is a tribute to Baby.
Well, can I show you something?
Oh, where did you get that?
Dance for me. That was last week.
- I miss her so much.
- MELISSA: I know.
She was my whole world.
- Imagine if you lost one of your kids.
- MELISSA: I would die.
- And she made everybody smile.
- MELISSA: I know.
She never rolled her eyes at me.
- She didn't need braces.
- I know.
- And when I said dance, she danced.
She made everybody smile.
And Maddie, when she dances on stage,
everybody smiles.
I saw Abby crying.
She didn't want the tribute
from the whole group.
She wanted nothing about it.
When it's from Maddie, she cries.
The whole point of having
a tribute dance was that
all the girls wanted to tribute something
to Broadway Baby.
You know, but here's Melissa, once again,
trying to get her kid ahead
by having Maddie's solo
be dedicated to Broadway Baby,
and forget about the rest of you.
- Where were you?
- I talked to Abby.
I showed her that video.
We had a question for you.
Why did you go and have Maddie's dance
dedicated to Baby and Abby
when we wanted to do it as a group?
After Abby specifically said,
I don't want it. I don't--
Like we wanted to do it as a group
to be from all the kids
and then you went and did it
for just Maddie.
I don't know. I just thought that
I should do something special for her
because I was really close with the dog.
I mean, I babysat her quite a few times.
I feel like you just take our information
and use it to your advantage to
get more on Abby's good side.
You knew that we had a tribute dance plan,
and you went and you did
a tribute dance for Maddie.
It's not fair that
Melissa somehow always manages
to look better than the rest of us,
and Chloe and all the other girls
are the ones who end up paying the price,
because of things just like this.
We just want you to own up to it, Melissa.
I don't think this is about the tribute.
The moms are just mad that
Abby and I are friends again
and they just want Abby to treat me
like she treats them.
You always try to say like,
oh, I'm so nice,
and I'm so sweet. I just love everybody.
But I think that you would
like kill us in our sleep
if it meant your kids would get ahead.
Hello.
Good job, Nia.
Congrats.
There's a lot of tension in the air,
and what we should be focusing on
is the group dance that's coming up.
Hey, Nia.
Nice job.
Very nice. Very nice.
Yeah, so what did you think, huh? Huh?
Good job.
Was it nice to go out there and smile
- and just be pretty and just dance?
- Yes.
And for you to dedicate your performance.
I appreciate you.
I'm really hurt that
Abby thinks it's okay for Melissa
to tribute Maddie's dance
to Broadway Baby,
and none of the other girls
were allowed to.
I don't get it.
So is this going to be a tribute dance?
- Because I misunderstood.
- No.
We all wanted to do the tribute.
She ended up being the only one
to tribute her child's dance.
She was close to my dog.
But I still can feel sorry for you.
I wish the moms
just wouldn't fight with Abby
and let her enjoy this tribute.
Anything that I've tried
to do to lift her spirits,
they've squashed with their behavior.
You watched my dog one day
at the dance studio.
That's right. This wasn't about that.
My dog has been at Melissa's house
and stayed there.
She's watched it when I traveled
and I've gone away.
So you're saying it's okay for Melissa--
Basically, she lies.
I just can't get over the nerve of Jill
and the rest of the moms.
We have a group dance to worry about.
Maybe the moms should concentrate on that
instead of going after Melissa.
Girls, I need you right here lined up
or you will not be in the routine.
Does anyone have an orange bottoms?
Who else is in the yellow top?
Does anyone have plain pink shorts?
I felt really rushed.
I mean, Abby scratched the dance
the girls had prepared,
and now they're forced
to do something last minute.
I don't like to do things last minute.
I like to be prepared.
This is a feel-good, pretty number
to show off your beautiful technique,
so don't go out and do the same bad arms
that you've been told over
and over and over are wrong.
Let's go. We got to walk.
This has been one
of the toughest weeks of my life.
I lost my Baby,
and now I'm at this dance competition
with the routine
that I didn't choreograph,
and the kids are improving.
We do the diagonal line.
We do the rounded plie to the pyramid.
We do the--
I don't think we have a shot
at winning this.
[applause]
ANNOUNCER: Taking the stage right now
is the junior small group division.
Here they are with "Beautiful Days."
[applause]
[MUSIC - ELIZE, "BEAUTIFUL DAY"]
(SINGING) Na-na na-na ay.
Na-na na-na ay ay.
Na-na na-na ay.
That was a good leap for Paige.
(SINGING) Hey you, look up at the sun
'cause it's shining for you.
It's a beautiful day.
See a million colors
and you'll feel brand-new.
It's a beautiful day.
Na-na Na-na ay.
Na-na na-na ay ay.
Na-na na-na ay.
Yeah.
[applause]
It wasn't the best.
I think some of the girls
could have made better choices,
but the technique looked good.
We'll see what the judges say.
- ABBY LEE MILLER: Nia?
- BLACK PATSY: Yeah.
- ABBY LEE MILLER: No.
- BLACK PATSY: She was.
- ABBY LEE MILLER: Never noticed.
- I think you were wrong about that.
- I don't think so.
BLACK PATSY: She has two left legs.
I knew she was a leftie.
I'm not engaging.
Well why did you say
something to begin with?
- I'm disengaging.
- Hm.
For her to sit in the audience
and critique somebody else's child
is just plain wrong.
ABBY LEE MILLER: That's very rude.
So there can be
two rude people here today.
There's enough rudeness for everybody.
If you're going to critique something,
you would have known--
- I'm going.
--that she was just a whole
beat ahead of everybody.
You didn't let Patsy
run you out of here, did you?
If she thinks that she ran me
out of that auditorium,
she better think again.
I gracefully exited.
It's easy for her to dish it out
and go off on everybody,
but when somebody tell her something,
she don't want to hear it.
That's a punk move right there.
And I see Kendall, 'cause that was
my first time really watching her,
and she can't dance, either. Kendall, no.
[laughs]
All of a sudden,
Black Patsy moves on from Nia to Kendall
and starts trash-talking her.
Did you hear that?
She just said Kendall can't dance.
Who said that?
It's obvious that
Black Patsy is just jealous of Kendall
because she replaced Nicaya
on Abby's team.
That little girl cannot dance.
Your daughter cannot dance.
I thought Nia was the one
that had to work her way up.
Nia dances circles around your kid.
Well, you know what's funny?
We said the same thing
about your little girl.
Bitch, you don't want to go there with me.
I will show your ass hood.
That little girl cannot dance.
Your daughter cannot dance.
I thought Nia was the one
that had to work her way up.
Nia dances circles around your kid.
You know what's funny?
We said the same thing
about your little girl.
I'm not going to sit back
and let this woman bad-mouth my child
and say all this [bleep] that isn't true.
I walked in your recital,
got right on stage,
and danced with your "elite" dancers.
You were kicked out
because she wasn't good enough.
No, bitch, I left.
You ran back to that studio
and I see why they didn't want you back,
because your kid sucks.
Does that make you feel good?
Bitch, you don't want to go there with me.
I will show your ass hood.
- Who started this?
- You don't want to--
Who started this?
I just thought it was hysterical to see
Jill trying to get like all hood rat.
Shut your big mouth
and I'll tell you who started it.
Shut the blank up.
And Black Patsy's all like, F y'all.
I'm like, whoa, whoa.
Okay, stop. stop. Stop.
[arguing]
Stop.
I apologize on behalf
of the Abby Lee Dance Company.
You're a punk, Abby. Apologize for that.
Where is my daughter?
We are not a part of that,
and I am very, very sorry
that this happened
and the children had to hear that.
[applause]
I'm done talking.
I'm disengaging, like Dr. Holly said.
- [bleep] y'all.
- [gasps]
I really hope to never, ever, ever
come across that woman again.
Bitch is what she is.
Where were you guys?
Come on.
I really wish you guys
could have stuck up for me.
Jill was all mad that
the moms wouldn't jump in,
but I was really worried that Black Patsy
was going to pull up my weave.
I-- I--
She's speechless. This one's speechless.
You know, Kelly,
I was actually looking at you
and I'm going, come on. Come on.
But I couldn't fight because I didn't--
I was trying to get you
because I wasn't letting her go down.
I'm like, come on.
You're not doing anything, and I'm like--
Maybe that's my way to join in.
We are partners in crime.
Oh my god, Kelly, I need you.
I miss so many things with Kelly.
I just miss knowing that
someone has my back.
And, clearly, you know,
Kelly and I need each other,
because when we're separated,
we don't have the forces to fight evil.
But I need you to be my friend
because we can fight evil forces.
Like I lost my mojo. I've got nothing.
[applause]
First of all, we're going to start
the awards in just a second.
But I want to address something
that happened here just briefly.
For those of you that were out
in the hallway during the incident,
I want to sincerely apologize
from Expressions Dance and myself.
These ladies are a bunch of rich bitches.
That's what they are.
ANNOUNCER: That type
of behavior is not tolerated.
That person was removed
from the competition.
[applause]
Thank you very much.
If I do come back,
these moms better watch out.
It's a shame that
Patsy couldn't control her temper
and now she's gone.
Nicaya doesn't even get to see the awards.
It's a tight competition.
She could have placed,
but now she'll never know.
Now, on to the fun stuff.
Alright, ladies and gentlemen,
we are going to start
with our judges awards first.
Judges award for fiercest costume.
Lots of costumes stood out to me today,
but what I loved about this costume
was the way the dancer worked it
with such confidence.
Congratulations, number 25.
- [cheering]
- Nia.
And who made your costume?
Well, my mom made my costume.
Congratulations.
Take that, Abby.
ANNOUNCER: We have our top soloists.
In third place,
with a score of 278.4 points,
entry number 25.
[cheering]
Nia got third.
HOLLY: I am unbelievably proud
of Nia this week.
She scored third overall.
And it was a chaotic week,
filled with emotion, pressure from Patsy,
but Nia held her head up high,
and she scored big for Abby.
And in first place,
with a score to 294.5 points,
entry number 26, "Showing You My Heart."
[applause]
Maddie is a champion,
and the judges recognize that.
I am so proud of her,
and I know that Baby would be too.
ANNOUNCER: Okay, now we'll be moving
into our small groups.
Considering the group awards,
I can't say I have high hopes
that this group dance
is going to do anything.
We're doing our top two scores
in the junior division.
Second place,
with a score of 266.95 points,
entry number 65, "Somebody to Love."
[applause]
They just announced second place,
and it wasn't us.
There's a really good chance
that we didn't place at all.
ANNOUNCER: First place,
with a score of 273.12 points,
entry number 64, "Beautiful Day."
[cheering]
Our group number wins first place.
I think Broadway Baby was in heaven
smiling down upon them.
- 1, 2, 3.
- Abby Lee Dance Company.
- [applause]
- Good job.
We won with an improv!
We won. We won.
[cheering]
We won.
[laughs]
[cheering]
Oh my goodness.
Give me a hug.
Put your arms around me and squeeze.
[music continuing]
The girls made this card for you.
I wish she could be here.
- I love Baby.
- ABBY LEE MILLER: I know.
She made everybody smile, right?
If you love Baby and care about her,
then say a prayer that she's okay
and that she's good.
Miss Abby, we--
ABBY LEE MILLER (VOICEOVER):
Next on "Dance Moms."
It's speed dating.
[laughs] How are you doing?
Do you own your own tuxedo?
I'm a 50-yard line cut girl.
The duet will be Kendall and Nia.
- Where's Jill?
- Having a private with Kendall.
I didn't do anything behind your back.
I did it right in front of you,
and I did it to benefit my child.
I don't feel like we're being a team.
This is about competing,
and this is about winning.
If your mother does something
to jeopardize this competition,
you're done.